Release/3.1.0 alpha.0 (#5110)
open-formulieren/open-forms: CHANGELOG.rst

    The Dutch version of this changelog can be found :ref:`here <changelog-nl>`.

3.1.0-alpha.0 (2025-02-17)
==========================

This is an alpha release, meaning it is not finished yet or suitable for production use.

Detailed changes
----------------

**New features**

* Added documentation on how to use the new JSON Dump registration plugin.
* [:backend:`5066`] Added button to include all form variables to JSON Dump registration
  plugin configuration.
* [:backend:`5093`] Improved user experience when working with array values in the form
  variables table.

> * [:backend:`5012`] Include metadata to the information send by JSON Dump registration
>   plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`5012`] Include metadata to the information sent by JSON Dump registration
  plugin.
```

> * [:backend:`5024`] Loosened validation on ZGW registration backend. Allowing domains to

Reviewer: I think this was done for the Objects API as well.

Author: Ahh you're right

  contain lowercase characters.
* [:backend:`4622`] Improved accessibility for logo used in submission report PDF.

> * [:backend:`4980`] Added JSON schema definitions to information send by JSON Dump
>   registration plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`4980`] Added JSON schema definitions to information sent by JSON Dump
  registration plugin.
```

* [:backend:`4882`] Added documentation on how to use django-setup-configuration.

> * [:backend:`4993`] Retrieving select/selectboxes components values/options from
>   Referentielijsten API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`4993`] It's now possible to fetch select/selectboxes components values/options from Referentielijsten API.
```

* [:backend:`2177`] Changed the map component output to geoJson geometry. Allowing the
  placement of pins, lines and polygons in the map component.
* Tweaked clearable react-select styling, to better fit in the page.
* [:backend:`4908`] Added new JSON Dump registration plugin. Sending form submission
  variables, in JSON formatting, to extern services.
* [:backend:`4931`] Upgraded the form submission statistics to reflect actual submissions

>   , using the timeline logs.

Author: I didn't think about the export.. Nice catch! And yeah, "timeline logs" isn't really helpful..

* [:backend:`4991`] Added selection of Referentielijsten API services to global
  configuration.
* [:backend:`4785`] Updated the eHerkenning metadata generation to match the latest
  standard version(s).

**Bugfixes**

* [:backend:`5087`] Fixed default metadata variables not shown in JSON Dump registration
  plugin configuration.
* [:backend:`5088`] Fixed collapsed group being inaccessible in JSON Dump registration
  plugin configuration modal.
* [:backend:`5065`] Fixed attachments in a repeating group not being processed by

>   JSON Dump registration plugin.

Reviewer: I am not sure if these are bugfixes. Maybe they are part of the JSON Dump registration plugin's work. We introduce this feature in 3.1.0 or am I wrong?

Author: Yeah fair, this doesn't belong here..

* [:backend:`5077`] Fixed the performance issues when loading logic rules in the admin.
* [:backend:`5084`] Fixed the performance issues when saving form steps/definitions with
  large numbers of components (30-100), especially if they are reusable form definitions
  used in many (20+) forms. This was caused by an earlier patch for :backend:`5058`.
* [:backend:`4375`] Reverted "Removed environment variable
  ``DISABLE_SENDING_HIDDEN_FIELDS`` for Objects API."

> * [:backend:`4510`] Fixed error messages on form summary page not shown properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`4510`] Fixed error messages not shown properly on the form summary page.
```

* [:backend:`5037`] Fixed submission PDF not able to format date values.
* [:backend:`5058`] Fixed race conditions and database errors being caused when editing
  forms, originally because of :backend:`4900`.
* [:backend:`4689`] Fixed file uploads in repeating groups not being processed correctly.

> * [:backend:`5034`] Fixed Objects API registration plugin crashing when
>   "update existing object" is not enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`5034`] Fixed Objects API registration plugin crashing by validating object's ownership only when the latter should be updated.
```

Author: I've changed your suggestion slightly: 
```
* [:backend:`5034`] Fixed Objects API registration plugin crashing by validating object's ownership only when the object should be updated.
```
I think that is a bit more precise.

* Fixed a misconfiguration for AddressNL end-to-end testing in CI.
* Fixed submission status in registration management command.
* [:backend:`5035`] Fixed duplicate values being sent by legacy Objects API registration
  plugin.
* Fixed default version handling for Objects API registration.
* [:backend:`4825`] Fixed prefill reporting false failures to daily digest when multiple
  authentication flows are used.

**Project maintenance**

* [:sdk:`76`] Use ESM modules instead of UMD for the SDK, if the browser supports it.
* Removed unused ``celery_worker.sh`` command line arguments.
* Addressed proptype warnings in SubmissionLimitFields components.
* Added AXES_FAILURE_LIMIT environment variable.
* [:backend:`4927`] Added system checking for missing configuration on non-required

>   serializer fields, and added missing configuration to non-required char fields.

Author: Yeah i wasn't sure about that part.. You're right, lets remove it

3.1.0-alpha.0 (2025-02-17)
==========================

This is an alpha release, meaning it is not finished yet or suitable for production use.

Upgrade procedure
-----------------

⚠️ Ensure you upgrade to Open Forms 3.0.1 before upgrading to the 3.1.0 release series.

Detailed changes
----------------

**New features**

* [:backend:`5093`] Improved user experience when working with array values in the form
  variables table.
* [:backend:`5024`] Loosened validation on ZGW APIs and Objects API registration
  backends. Allowing configured domains to contain lowercase characters.
* [:backend:`4622`] Improved accessibility for logo used in submission report PDF.
* [:backend:`4882`] Added documentation on how to use django-setup-configuration.
* [:backend:`4993`] Retrieving select/selectboxes components values/options from
  Referentielijsten API.
* [:backend:`2177`] Changed the map component output to geoJson geometry. It's now
  possible to place pins, lines and polygons in the map component.
* Added the ability to configure ``AXES_FAILURE_LIMIT`` environment variable for defining
  the number of login attempts.

> * [:backend:`4908`] Added new JSON Dump registration plugin. Allowing submitted form data
>   to be sent as a `JSON object` to a configured service.
> 
>     - Added documentation on how to use the JSON Dump registration plugin.
>     - [:backend:`5066`] It's possible to quickly add all form variables to the data sent
>       to the configured service, using a button in the plugin configuration.
>     - [:backend:`5012`] You can include metadata when submitting data to a configured service.
>     - [:backend:`4980`] Added JSON schema definitions to be sent along the submitted data
>       to the confgured service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [:backend:`4908`, :backend:`5066`, :backend:`5012`, :backend:`4980`] Added new JSON Dump
  registration plugin.
  
    - Ability to send submitted form data as a `JSON object` to a configured service.
    - Added documentation on how to use the JSON Dump registration plugin.
    - It's possible to quickly add all form variables to the data sent
      to the configured service, using a button in the plugin configuration.
    - You can include metadata when submitting data to a configured service.
    - Added JSON schema definitions to be sent along the submitted data
      to the confgured service.
```

The point is to have the connected PRs for this plugin on the first line altogether and below the subtasks that were done concerning this generic feature like the one here:

https://github.com/open-formulieren/open-forms/blob/master/CHANGELOG.rst?plain=1#L285

Author: Ahh check check.. changed it 👍
